# SAR_Nomographs

This is a collection of hacks I created using
[PyNomo](http://www.pynomo.org/).  Pynomo is also now on github at
its author's repository, https://github.com/lefakkomies/pynomo.

The purpose is to provide a simple, usable set of nomographs that
search planners and debriefers can use to estimate Probability of Detection
(POD) or the effort required to achieve a given POD, without having to pull
out a computer and spreadsheet program to do so.

In order to generate the nomographs from the scripts (or hack on them), you
must first install PyNomo and all of its dependencies according to
the directions on its web site.  Once PyNomo is installed properly,
you can just run these scripts to produce the nomographs.  The scripts
produce PDFs of the nomographs for viewing in any PDF viewer or
incorporation into other documents.

The repository contains PDF versions of the nomographs as generated by the
python scripts, so you don't have to unless you want to hack on 'em.

The two nomographs that are intended to be used are
POD_from_W_v_t_simplified.pdf and POD_from_W_L_N.pdf.  The others are
all just toys I created while learning PyNomo and building these two.

POD_from_W_v_t_simplified.pdf is intended for planning purposes, and
instructions for using it are in "PlanningNomograph_Instructions.odt",
a LibreOffice document.  It can be used to estimate the searcher
effort (in "searcher-hours") required to achieve a given POD, knowing
either the effective sweep width or the measured average range of
detection, the searcher speed and region area and desired POD.
Alternatively, it can be used to determine the attainable POD using a
given level of effort (in searcher-hours).

Conversion between range of detection and sweep width makes use of the
approximate relations described in [Use of the Visual Range of
Detection to Estimate Effective Sweep Widths for Land Search and
Rescue Based on 10 Detection Experiments in North
America](http://www.wemjournal.org/article/S1080-6032%2813%2900266-4/abstract).

The second nomograph, POD_from_W_L_N.pdf, is for debriefing purposes.
It allows the debriefer to compute the POD of a completed search using
the measured average range of detection (or alternatively the
tabulated effective sweep width), the total track length of one
searcher in the team (as measured by GPS), the number of searchers on
the team, and the area searched.  Instructions for using it are in
"DebriefNomograph_Instructions.odt" (also a LibreOffice document).


PDF versions of both instruction sheets are also present in the
repository, for those who cannot read LibreOffice documents.

These nomographs were created first as a little joke I was going to
present to a class on search theory at the 2015 New Mexico search and
reference conference, ESCAPE, showing how search planners of the 1940s
might have computed the quantities in question.  Then it occurred to
me that the nomograph would actually be useful even to search planners
in the 21st century.  Effective use of these nomographs does require
familiarity with search theory and its application.  I drafted a tiny
web page with some useful papers and books to read if you're
interested in this subject.  It's at
http://pages.swcp.com/~russo/searchtheoryrefs.html.
